# 1/22/2018

## V&V
- verify: did I build the system correctly?
- validate: did I build the correct system?

> Objective method to prove that you met requirements

## What is a system?

- **Formally:** set of interrelated components functioning together toward some comment objective or purpose
- Elements:
  - components
  - attributes
  - relationships (between components)
- Systems *alter* either energy, information or materials
- Natural or man-made
- Physical or conceptual
- Static or dynamic

## What is systems engineering
- Interdisciplinary approach and means to enable the realization of
successful systems
  - How you bring a product into being?
  - Higher-level point of view
  - Usually start out as engineer from a "classic" discipline and
  learn other disciplines
     - Large breadth, not depth necessarily

## Product life cycle
- Start with a need
- Come up with a preliminary design
- Product/construction
- Use, support, phase-out, disposal (how to dispose of old space
station?)

If asked an open-ended question on an exam, don't just regurgitate. Come
up with a good example and show it go through each step in the cycle.

## Common systems engineering process models
- Waterfall
- Vee
  - Most widely used approach for systems design
- Spiral
  - Stop at each band and see how you're doing
- Others


<u>Requirements allocation:</u> not all requirements deal with the same
attributes. Therefore, parse it out.

## Systems engineering work model
1. Evaluation
2. Synthesis
3. Analysis
4. Goto 1.

## System life-cycle commitment, system-specific knowledge, and incurred cost

It gets difficult to change things as the cycle goes on
