#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
EE4130 - Homework 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Joshua Saunders
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
2/14/2018
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Question 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Select a man-made system of your choice (preferably NOT one from the textbook)
 and describe the components, attributes, and relationships between the
 components and attributes of that system you chose.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Man-made system:
\series default
 a satellite in geostationary orbit around the earth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Components:
\series default
 communications dish, reaction wheels, on-board computer, solar panels,
 gimbals, radar altimeter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Attributes:
\series default
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Communications dish: bandwidth, frequency
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Reaction wheels: orientation, radius, mass
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
On-board computer: RAM, CPU speed, disk space
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Solar panels and power system: area, power, voltage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Gimbals: degrees of freedom
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Radar altimeter: frequency, resolution
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Relationships:
\series default
 The communications dish receives commands and transmits these commands
 to the ob-board computer which collects data from the radar altimeter.
 The on-board computer process the telemetry data from the radar altimeter
 and sends it back to the ground via the communications dish.
 The gimbals point the communications dish at the ground station and point
 the radar altimeter at the target.
 The solar panels and power system provide power for the satellite.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Question 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
List some of the likely benefits from using systems thinking and the systems
 engineering process, when developing a new system or product.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some likely benefits of using systems thinking and the systems engineering
 process when developing a new system or product:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Allows a new system or product to be viewed from different levels of complexity.
 For example, one can take the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

50,000 ft view
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 that shows a high-level overview to get a basic idea of how the system
 or product is made.
 Or, one can take a low-level over to see how individual components operate
 and interconnect.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Periodic reviews can ensure that the stakeholders and product/system developers
 are in agreement of what the product/system that what is being developed
 is what was intended.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Question 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Of the three systems engineering process models described in the lecture
 in week 1, choose one and explain how it can help in the process of system
 design and synthesis…
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The spiral process is an iterative design process that has several different
 phases.
 At each phase, a different type of prototype is developed.
 The different phases with different prototypes coupled with feedback allows
 for the discovery of what the stakeholders actually want versus what the
 designers think that the stakeholders want.
 Also, it allows a product to be designed that is more consistent with what
 the stakeholders want as well.
 Because it is an adaptation of the waterfall method, the spiral method
 is well suited for large-scale, complicated systems such as satellites
 and aircraft.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
